Start working on new governance pages (#2302)
galaxyproject/galaxy-hub: content/community/governance/gcb/index.md

> # Galaxy Community Board Proposal

Reviewer: This section from "Community Special Interest Groups (SIGs)" through to the end of "Many hands make light work" seems like it should go under the 'SIGs' heading in the drop-down menu at the top, rather than on the GCB page.

Reviewer: You could have a hook describing SIGs and embed it here (and on the SIGs page) but this page should be about the governance, not what a SIG is

Author: I guess I understand now. I intended that the SIG page is "just" listing SIGs and the description, duties, etc are part of the governance and hence part of this page.

The `hook` thing we need to implement into the framework. I hope we can do that soon.

> # Galaxy Community Board Proposal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Galaxy Community Board
```

**Keywords:** Special Interest Groups, Community of Practices

## Origins

The Galaxy Community Board (GCB) is proposed to take over the functions of the Global Galaxy Steering Committee.

> During GCC 2023, we discussed how to empower the Galaxy community in terms of project planning and effective execution, decision making and governance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During GCC 2023, we discussed how to empower the Galaxy community in terms of project planning, decision-making, execution, and overall governance. 
```

## Purposes

Representation of community aspects of the ecosystem is central to long-term Project sustainability. The goal is to empower participants, giving a genuine voice, in planning and governance, through efficient and transparent structures and processes, that can scale effectively as the Galaxy project continues to expand. 

> The GCB will provide a supportive virtual forum for the exchange of ideas, and a governance body representing the interests of participating communities. It will organise and manage its own agenda and work, including arranging meetings and asynchronous discussions. The agenda might include planning new initiatives; supporting ongoing development; identifying and advocating for user needs; managing coherent, community owned proposals and responses in the roadmap processes and other important Project decision-making.

Author: The purpose was to give an idea of what a GCB `might` need to organize. It can be different.

> Efficient communication between the GCB (Community Board) and both the GEB (Executive Board) and the GTB (Technical Board) requires at least one representative from GEB and from GTB to be also members of the GCB. It is recommended that at least one member of each of the other Boards are also members of the GCB, at all times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Efficient communication between the GCB (Community Board) and both the GEB (Executive Board) and the GTB (Technical Board) requires at least one representative from GEB and from GTB to be also members of the GCB. It is recommended that at least one member of each of the other two Boards are also members of the GCB.
```

> Efficient communication between the GCB (Community Board) and both the GEB (Executive Board) and the GTB (Technical Board) requires at least one representative from GEB and from GTB to be also members of the GCB. It is recommended that at least one member of each of the other Boards are also members of the GCB, at all times.

Reviewer 2: The second sentence reads like a replica of the first sentence's content (except the trailing 'at all times'). Or are there more boards than GEB and GTB intended to be represented in the GCB?

Reviewer 2: Ok - the recommendation just follows the requirement quite closely/obviously. Adding "Therefore, it is" will sufficiently resolve this. Maybe "of each of the other *two* Boards is another clarification.

In summary, the goals of the GCB are:

* discuss and summarize scientist (user) feedback to help guide the technical development of the Galaxy platform;
* communicate scientist (user) vision and feedback to the GTB and GEB;
* develop proposals to advance scientist (user) goals in the Galaxy community.

## Community Special Interest Groups (SIGs)

> The GCB is a governance structure representing groups that are not primarily technical in nature, such as existing Proteomics and Microbial communities, though engaging in capacity building, toolkit development, outreach and training. The term *[Special Interest Group](/community/sig)* (SIG) is proposed as a term referring to these kinds of groups. No specific restrictions are proposed, other than making a useful contribution to the Project, so collaborating commercial users could form and manage their own SIG and gain access to the Roadmap process. 

Reviewer 3: the commercial users sentence is a bit confusing, not sure it should be in the same paragraph

> The GCB is a governance structure representing groups that are not primarily technical in nature, such as existing Proteomics and Microbial communities, though engaging in capacity building, toolkit development, outreach and training. The term *[Special Interest Group](/community/sig)* (SIG) is proposed as a term referring to these kinds of groups. No specific restrictions are proposed, other than making a useful contribution to the Project, so collaborating commercial users could form and manage their own SIG and gain access to the Roadmap process. 

Author: I will try to adjust ... its not about "commercial users". Its about industry-partners that have special needs that they might want to articulate into a industry-sig.

> The GCB is a governance structure representing groups that are not primarily technical in nature, such as existing Proteomics and Microbial communities, though engaging in capacity building, toolkit development, outreach and training. The term *[Special Interest Group](/community/sig)* (SIG) is proposed as a term referring to these kinds of groups. No specific restrictions are proposed, other than making a useful contribution to the Project, so collaborating commercial users could form and manage their own SIG and gain access to the Roadmap process. 

Reviewer: though --> through
maybe just leave off the last sentence? Surely industry is mentioned elsewhere?

> Active contributing communities are encouraged to form and govern their own SIG, with a focus on specific shared interests. Each SIG may elect one member to represent their interests on the GCB. This is analogous to the Technical Board, consisting of representatives of the Working Groups (WG).

Reviewer: It's becoming tricky to distinguish WG from SIG, so would you want to stipulate something like 'consisting of representatives of the more centrally-funded Working Groups (WG)'?

Reviewer: Keep the last sentence, that works and that makes sense, and if people want to learn more they can click on SIGs or WGs pages

> Active contributing communities are encouraged to form and govern their own SIG, with a focus on specific shared interests. Each SIG may elect one member to represent their interests on the GCB. This is analogous to the Technical Board, consisting of representatives of the Working Groups (WG).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Active, contributing, like-minded individuals are encouraged to form and govern their own SIG, with a focus on specific shared interests. Each SIG may elect one member to represent their interests on the GCB. This is analogous to the Technical Board, consisting of representatives of the Working Groups (WG).
```

Author: Note to myself: Get rid of repeating communities too often.

Author: Active contributors?
Active Galaxy users and/or contributors?

> ### Characteristics of SIGs:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Characteristics of SIGs
```

> * Primarily focused on community development: as distinct from the more technical issues managed by WGs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Focused on community development, as distinct from the more technical issues managed by WGs.
```

Author: I would like to keep the primarily, to not exclude other  SIGs. My example here is a short-term SIGs to enhance tool annotations with bio.tools or license. This is not a community development activity, but still a special interest...

Reviewer: Ahh ok, then use 'Often'

Author: Done! Thanks.

> * Flexible model: with simple criteria such as evidence of genuine community support, hub updates and self-regulation,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Self-regulated
* Flexible duration, SIGs are easy to form and dissolve based on community needs
```

> for ongoing recognition, easy to create and to dissolve, can be transient

Reviewer 3: I don't understand this part

Author: SIGs are in contrast to WGs very flexible. We assume WGs are long-term.
SIGs are:
* easy to create and to dissolve
* can be transient
* It is enough if you support a small community, and update the hub

> * Some supporting administrative infrastructure will be provided by the Galaxy Project 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Supported with administrative infrastructure provided by the Galaxy Project and the GCB[add link here!], such as:
```

Reviewer: idk what the final link will be

Author: Cool I can modify your suggestion. For reference `[GTB](/community/governance/gtb/)` and `[GCB](/community/governance/gcb/)`

  * mailing list
  * website infrastructure and a place on the Galaxy hub to present the Community
  * presentation slot at the annual GCC conference
  * Chat channel/room
* Govern their own activities such as organising meetings, developing training material and tools, maintaining the Hub pages, and choosing a representative for the GCB.

> * Internally organise themselves to gather and articulate their own needs and requirements as part of the Galaxy Project roadmap and (competitive grant) processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Represented at the GCB in order to articulate needs and requirements as part of the Galaxy Project roadmap and (competitive grant) processes.
```

Reviewer: add roadmap and GCB link

Author: Is it Represented `at` or `in`?

Reviewer: either, possibly a UK vs USA distinction. Go with 'in'

### Requirements for SIGs

* A SIG must have 2 or more members to be viable.

> * SIGs must maintain a page on the Hub with at least:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Must maintain a page on the Hub with at least:
```

Reviewer: add link to SIGs

Reviewer: minor thing but I'd put the hub page req section underneath the single-line requirements

    * A description of the focus and purposes of the SIG.
    * A clear explanation of how individuals can join and maintain membership.

>     * Details of access to the SIG’s communication channels
>     * A description of roadmap related processes for gathering input from members

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * Details of access to the SIG’s communication channels.
    * A description of roadmap-related processes for gathering input from members.
```

> * SIGs are required to provide the current contact/email address for the nominated GCB representative, and to manage membership and internal communication for itself. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provide the current contact/email address for the nominated GCB representative, and to manage membership and internal communication for itself. 
```

> * SIGs are expected to use at least one public Matrix channel under the Galaxy Matrix space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use at least one public Matrix channel under the Galaxy Matrix space.
```

### Creating a new SIG

> We encourage everyone with interest in Galaxy to join a SIG, a WG or create their own SIG. The Galaxy Project Management Office (PMO)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We encourage everyone with an interest in contributing to Galaxy to join a SIG, WG, or to create their own SIG. The Galaxy Project Management Office (PMO)
```

Reviewer: Link to the 'create own sig' page here, as well as the WG and SIG directories

Reviewer: Also if you're directing to the PMO office, this also needs updating: get-started/new-leads/

> We encourage everyone with interest in Galaxy to join a SIG, a WG or create their own SIG. The Galaxy Project Management Office (PMO)

Reviewer 2: Put link as soon as the PMO section has been moved to the sig/index.md file (comp. inline comment in governance/index.md)

Reviewer: Also link to 'creating a new SIG here'  - get-started/new-leads/ - so that it cross-links correctly.

> is the first point of contact for anyone wanting to form a new SIG. To illustrate the scope of SIGs see the community page on the Galaxy hub and the following examples:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
is the first point of contact for anyone wanting to form a new SIG. To illustrate the scope of SIGs, see the community page on the Galaxy Community Hub and the following examples:
```

> is the first point of contact for anyone wanting to form a new SIG. To illustrate the scope of SIGs, see the community page on the Galaxy Community Hub and the following examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is the first point of contact for anyone wanting to form a new SIG. To illustrate the scope of SIGs, check the SIG directory[LINK].
```

* Microbial (People interested in Microbial research, tool, workflow and training development)
* Industry Forum (a forum for people to exchange needs and experiences with Galaxy in Industry settings)
* Indian Galaxy Community (regional Galaxy community, interested in Galaxy community building)
* AnVIL (funded project related to Galaxy)
* BLA (Better License Annotation SIG - does not exist yet, but could bring people together to better annotate Galaxy tools and workflows with appropriate licenses, could develop License recommendations)

> ## Why make a SIG?

Reviewer 3: there are good points in this section but the narrative needs to be a more clear I think

Reviewer: I think this should be deleted now that there's a nice directories page, just link to that instead to shorten this section

### Prevent work duplication

It’s surprisingly easy for individuals halfway across the world to need the same tool and build the same tool.
What a waste of time when there are so many cool things to do!

### Highlight new resources

If you’re working in the same research area, for instance, it can be exciting when someone builds something new that could help your research. With so many things getting added daily, it’s easy to miss this news. SIGs can point out such highlights and give you new ideas for your research or work.

### Peer review

Need someone to look at an issue? Want some feedback on a tutorial or tool? Your fellow SIG members are a lot more likely to help you if you help them, and, more importantly, if they know who you are. Cut through the 1.8k of issues on Github by making some work friends in your field.

### Building community

> The more community you have, the more power you have in developing further resources (or grant proposals!), finding collaborators, co-authoring papers, etc. More user numbers gives you more sway in decision-making and building up Galaxy further, furthering your own work. It’s a lot easier to say you need something and 100 users agree, than to ask on behalf of yourself alone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The bigger the community you have, the more power in developing further resources (or grant proposals!), finding collaborators, co-authoring papers, etc. Higher user counts give you more sway in decision-making and building up Galaxy further, advancing your own work. It’s a lot easier to say you need something and 100 users agree, than to ask on behalf of yourself alone.
```

### Many hands make light work

> When delivering training (like Smorgasbord [link]) or projects, it’s rather important that the website you point to, quite frankly, looks nice. If half the training is out of date, or - as happened to this author - you send someone to a page to learn a field and they get 3.5 hours into a 7 hour tutorial that no longer works, is outdated, and note relevant to the name of the page itself, then you immediately lose people and waste time. Preparing training material for training events is a big task, but if you can share it amongst a SIG, you ensure sustainability and increase impact. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When delivering training (like Smorgasbord [link]) or projects, it’s rather important that the website you point to, quite frankly, looks nice. Imagine half the training is out of date, or - as happened to this author - you send someone to a page to learn a field and they get 3.5 hours into a 7 hours tutorial that no longer works, is outdated and not relevant to the name of the page itself. You immediately lose people and waste time. Preparing training material for training events is a big task, but if you can share it amongst a SIG, you ensure sustainability and increase impact. 
```

> When delivering training (like Smorgasbord [link]) or projects, it’s rather important that the website you point to, quite frankly, looks nice. Imagine half the training is out of date, or - as happened to this author - you send someone to a page to learn a field and they get 3.5 hours into a 7 hours tutorial that no longer works, is outdated and not relevant to the name of the page itself. You immediately lose people and waste time. Preparing training material for training events is a big task, but if you can share it amongst a SIG, you ensure sustainability and increase impact. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When delivering training (like [Smorgasbord](https://gallantries.github.io/posts/2021/03/01/smörgåsbord/) global training events) or projects, it’s rather important that the website you point to, quite frankly, looks nice. Imagine half the training is out of date, or - as happened to this author - you send someone to a page to learn a field and they get 3.5 hours into a 7 hours tutorial that no longer works, is outdated and not relevant to the name of the page itself. You immediately lose people and waste time. Preparing training material for training events is a big task, but if you can share it amongst a SIG, you ensure sustainability and increase impact. 
```

## WG and SIGs are complimentary

> Working Groups are:

Author: It is here to distinguish those two. Do you mind keeping it here for the first iteration?

> Working Groups are:

Reviewer: yeah that's fine, but copying it to the WG page would be good too (hook/reusable snippet?)
Add a line "WGs are distinct from SIGs in that they are:"

> Working Groups are:

Author: I took that sentence over. Thanks.

> Working Groups are:
> * Focused on technical issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Working Groups:
* Are focused on technical issues.
```

> * manage important Project infrastructure assets, including source code, for the long term

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* manage important project infrastructure assets, including source code, for the long term
```

> * Also self-organised
> * Have representative(s) as a contact point
> * Send a representative to the technical board

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Are also self-organised.
* Have representative(s) as a contact point.
* Send a representative to the Technical Board ([GTB](/community/governance/gtb/)).
```

* contribute to the roadmap by providing technical input and requesting resources for technical and development activities

> SIG members, and especially the representatives, are encouraged to join WG meetings or talk to the WG representative to raise issues or request help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SIG members, and especially the representatives, are encouraged to join WG meetings or talk to WG representatives to raise issues or request help.
```

> For example, requesting assistance from the tools and workflows WG. Vice versa WGs might contact SIGs to harvest inputs from the community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, SIG members could request assistance from the tools and workflows WG. WGs might contact SIGs to collect feedback from the community.
```

Reviewer: add a link to the WGs page
